Judy Huynh
ISYS 475—Matthew Levy
Apache Roller

The open source project I found very interesting from the Apache foundation is the Apache Roller project that allows users to blog better. For example, the Apache Roller 5.1.2 allows bloggers with admin permissions on a blog to execute code on the server hosting Roller. Apache Roller also allows bloggers to blog and instantly post anything and everything including copyrighted, privacy infringing, and other content. This open source project runs as a Java web application that should be able to run on most any JAVA EE server. Apache roller is a full-featured, multi-user and group-blog server suitable for blog websites of any size. Apache Roller features Multi-user blogging which can support tens of thousands of users and blogs. Apache Roller also features group blogging with the editor, author, and limited permission level. This project allows bloggers to have complete control over their blog and layout/style via Apache templates, built in search engine indexes, support for blog clients that support MetaWeblog API, and all blogs have entry and comment feeds as well.
Apache roller is sponsored by The Apache Software Foundation. A couple organizations that are using the Apache Roller as a form of running their blogs are Oracle, American Academy of Family Physicians, Tokyo Business Club, Viithiisys Technologies, Carleton University Library, and more. The participants in this project includes Anil R. Gangolli, Greg Huber, David M Johnson, Kohei Nozaki, Matt Raible, Craigh L Russel, and Gaurav Saini. Other participants in this project also includes past volunteers: Jeff Blattman, Allen Gilliland, Mindaguas Idzelis, Lance Lanvandowska, Ganesh Mathrerootham, Glen Mazza, Shelan Perera, Matt Schmidt, Elias Torres, Jaap Van Der Molen, and Henry Yandell.
The governance structure for the Apache Roller open source project consists of a proposal of the code release by adding it to the Roller private mailing list. In order to commit, the committer may propose a milestone build which are not official releases, each are a snapshot for consensus for testing. After the committer feels like their release is ready, he/she would propose to make a release candidate—a complete release signed and ready to be shipped to be tested and feedback to be put up for votes by the PMC members. In order merged and released into the master codebase, there must be three +1 votes from the PMC members.
People can get involved/contribute to this project by subscribing to the development mailing list and start acting like a member of the project by asking questions, making suggestions, responding to a question, proposing changes or submitting fixes/patches. If you do well, show commitment, and get along with the other official committers of the project someone will most likely nominate you to be an official committer to the project and not just a volunteer. Apache Roller also offers an activity stream where users to comment if they have any issues with installation and using the open source project. Apache Roller also offers a blog for people to get engaged with the project (https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/ROLLER/Roller+Wiki). 


